When you visit a doctor, how they interpret your symptoms can determine whether your diagnosis is accurate. By the time they’re licensed, physicians have had a lot of practice writing patient notes that document the history of the patient’s complaint, physical exam findings, possible diagnoses, and follow-up care. Learning and assessing the skill of writing patient notes requires feedback from other doctors, a time-intensive process that could be improved with the addition of machine learning.

Until recently, the Step 2 Clinical Skills examination was one component of the United States Medical Licensing Examination® (USMLE®). The exam required test-takers to interact with Standardized Patients (people trained to portray specific clinical cases) and write a patient note. Trained physician raters later scored patient notes with rubrics that outlined each case’s important concepts (referred to as features). The more such features found in a patient note, the higher the score (among other factors that contribute to the final score for the exam).

However, having physicians score patient note exams requires significant time, along with human and financial resources. Approaches using natural language processing have been created to address this problem, but patient notes can still be challenging to score computationally because features may be expressed in many ways. For example, the feature "loss of interest in activities" can be expressed as "no longer plays tennis." Other challenges include the need to map concepts by combining multiple text segments, or cases of ambiguous negation such as “no cold intolerance, hair loss, palpitations, or tremor” corresponding to the key essential “lack of other thyroid symptoms.”

In this competition, you’ll identify specific clinical concepts in patient notes. Specifically, you'll develop an automated method to map clinical concepts from an exam rubric (e.g., “diminished appetite”) to various ways in which these concepts are expressed in clinical patient notes written by medical students (e.g., “eating less,” “clothes fit looser”). Great solutions will be both accurate and reliable.
